How to guide for private bicpe registry support feature. (#1230)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/guides/recipes/howto-private-bicep-registry/index.md

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Pull Bicep Recipes from private OCI container registry."
linkTitle: "Private bicep registries"
description: "Learn how to setup your Radius environment to use Bicep Recipe templates published to a private OCI container registry."
weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["recipes", "bicep"]
---

> This how-to guide will describe how to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will describe how to:
```

> - Configure a Radius environment to utilize Bicep Recipe templates that are stored in a private OCI (Open Container Initiative) complaint container registry. This setup will ensure the templates are securely stored and managed within private OCI registry.

Reviewer: also recommend adding a hyperlink to the Bicep Recipes details page

```suggestion
- Configure a Radius environment to utilize Bicep Recipe templates that are stored in a private OCI (Open Container Initiative) complaint container registry. This setup will ensure the templates are securely stored within a private OCI registry and accessed by Radius using required credentials.
```

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
- [Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-vs-code-extension" >}})
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

> - [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

Reviewer: can you confirm that all these relative paths to the other docs pages will work since this page itself isn't in the root directory? there are more similar cases below that I haven't commented, please check those as well.

Author: yes, i have tested it locally and all the links are accessible.

> ## Step 1: Setting up private OCI container registry authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Obtain private OCI container registry authentication credentials
```

Radius supports three authentication methods for accessing private container registries:

> - Basic Authentication: This method uses a username and password for authentication and is applicable to all OCI complaint registries. Obtain the username and password details used to login to private registry.

Reviewer: are there examples of basic auth (docker, github registries etc.) that you may include here to illustrate what is meant by "basic authentication"?

```suggestion
- Basic Authentication: This method uses a username and password for authentication and is applicable to all OCI complaint registries. Obtain the `username` and `password` details used to login to private registry.
```

- Azure Workload Identity: This federated identity-based authentication is used for connecting to Azure Container Registry (ACR). [Here]({{< ref howto-azure-provider-wi >}}) is the guide to setup Azure Workload Identity for Radius. Obtain `clientId` and `tenant ID` used during the setup.
- AWS IRSA: This federated identity-based authentication is used for accessing Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR). [Here]({{< ref howto-aws-provider-irsa >}}) is the guide to setup the AWS IRSA for Radius. Obtain `roleARN` from the role created during the setup.

## Step 2: Define a secret store resource

> Create a [Radius Secret Store]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) to manage and securely store the secerts information required for authenticating with a private registry. Define the namespace for the cluster that will contain your [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) with the `resource` property. And specify the type of secret e.g. basicAuthentication,azureWorkloadIdeneity, awsIRSA. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a [Radius Secret Store]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) to securely store and manage the secrets information required for authenticating with a private registry. Define the namespace for the cluster that will contain your [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) with the `resource` property and specify the type of secret e.g. `basicAuthentication`, `azureWorkloadIdeneity`, `awsIRSA`. 
```

> While this example shows a Radius-managed secret store where Radius creates the underlying secrets infrastructure, you can also bring your own existing secrets. Refer to the [secrets documentation]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) for more information.

> Secretstore example for secret type `awsIRSA`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secret store example for secret type `awsIRSA`:
```

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//SECRETSTORE" >}}

> ## Step 3: Configure authentication for private bicep registries and add a Bicep recipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Configure authentication for private bicep registries and add a Bicep recipe
```

> `recipeConfig` allows you to configure how Recipes should be setup and run. One available option is to specify the registry secrets for pulling Bicep recipes from private registries. For more information refer to the [Radius Environment schema]({{< ref environment-schema >}}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`recipeConfig` allows you to configure how Recipes should be setup and run. One available option is to specify the registry secrets for pulling Bicep Recipes from private registries. For more information refer to the [Radius Environment schema]({{< ref environment-schema >}}) page.
```

> In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource, along with Recipe configuration which leverages the previously defined secret store for private OCI registry authentication. 

Reviewer: recommend linking to the Environment guide page in case they need a refresher on how to create an Env resource

```suggestion
In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource that includes a `recipeConfig` which leverages the previously defined secret store for private OCI registry authentication.
```

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//ENV" >}}

## Step 5: Deploy your Radius Environment

Deploy your new Radius Environment:

```
rad deploy ./env.bicep
```

> ## Done

Reviewer: Instead of this "Done" header, I recommend showing the console output they should expect to see after deploying the environment, and then below the expected output the concluding "done" sentence can follow.

Author: updated it
